David, welcome to Talk Python To Me. Awesome to have you here.
Yeah, thank you, Michael.
Yeah.
I'm really excited to see what the AIs have to say today.
The AIs.
Yeah.
Language models, sure.
Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
Now, you've built a really cool extension for Jupyter that plugs in large language models
for people.
And it's looking super interesting.
So I'm excited to talk to you about it.
Yeah, I'm excited to talk about Jupyter AI too. I've actually presented this twice at one set, actually three times. I did a short demo at like this, like tech meetup thing in Seattle. That was actually the first time Jupyter AI was shown to the public. And then I presented at PyData Seattle at Microsoft's Redmond campus.
And then I got to present again at JupyterCon in Paris this May.
It was a really wonderful experience.
But yeah.
Wow.
Yeah, you're making the rounds.
Yeah.
I love to talk about JupyterAI.
It happens to get me some plane tickets.
Honestly, that's like half the bonus of conferences is like awesome places you get to go.
And the other half probably is the people you meet.
You know, it's really cool.
Oh, for me, it's like almost like all the people.
The people are just so great.
especially jupiter con yeah and the jupiter con videos are now out for jupiter con 2023 and um
there's a ton of good looking talks there so yeah lots of really smart people i mean like
that i was chatting to a folks a few folks there and that's like the only place where you're gonna
find like people who work at these hedge funds and trading firms just lounging so idly and casually
right like yeah the market's opening and they're chilling it's all fine yeah yeah it's a there's
a lot of smart people there yeah yeah i think jupiter more than a lot of programming technologies
bring people from all sorts of different places together different backgrounds
yeah there's there's like a huge story yeah there's like a lot of reasons behind that but
long story short jupiter is pretty awesome and that's kind of why i work to contribute to it
yeah awesome well let's start this whole conversation with a bit of background about
yourself and you know for people who didn't see your talk and don't know you yet uh tell them a
bit about you i mean i didn't really give much of an intro there either but sure i um yeah so i work
for aws as a software engineer and i've been with aws um specifically the uh aiml organization at aws
i've been with them for almost two years now and uh right now i uh i my manager is actually uh
brian granger who's the co-founder of project jupiter he also works for aws yeah so he's been
offering some technical and product guidance for the things that we're building. And he's a fantastic
gentleman to work with. Yeah, it's a really neat, neat to have him available as a resource,
you know, as a colleague. Yeah, you know, it's funny, like, I actually, yeah, I met him internally.
So when I first joined, I wasn't working for him. But at tech companies, you can do this
internal transfer thing and basically my old team was kind of the team i just joined right after i
joined it sort of started to dissolve a little because they just launched a product at reinvent
which happens in like uh december and then uh so i joined in december and it's like oh hi uh
so then i yeah and then i joined i messaged i saw just saw brian granger's name somehow and i
messaged him. And I didn't even know that he was the co-founder of Project Jupyter. I just wanted
to work for him because I used it before. And yeah, it's a pretty funny story. Yeah, indeed.
I imagine that project is really, you know, this is Jupyter AI is a great example, but I just
thinking of being, say, a founder of Jupyter or something like that. These things take on a life
of their own and he's probably in awe of all the stuff happening all the things going on and there's
probably a lot of stuff in jupiter he doesn't even know about right it's like that's happening yeah
it's huge and yeah and like the leadership structure has changed to accommodate that so
um brian is no longer the benevolent dictator for life jupiter project jupiter is now governed by a
committee and decentralized and democratized to just allow it to scale yeah of course of course
So let's start by talking about a bit of the role of AI in data science.
So I don't know how you feel about it.
Obviously, you must be somewhat of an advocate putting this much time and energy into bringing it to Jupyter.
Wow.
However, I personally, when I want to know something, I don't think there's a great specific search result for it.
Straight to ChatGPT or friends.
I think there's such a wealth of information there.
From I need to take this paragraph and clean it up and make it sound better.
To I have this program.
I want to convert to another language.
Or I have this data in this website.
How do I get it? You know, like just you can ask so many open ended questions and really get great answers.
So it seems to me, especially coming from, like I mentioned before, those diverse backgrounds, people not necessarily being like super deep in programming.
Maybe they're deep in finance, but they do programming that having this AI capability to ask like, hey, I know I can, but how?
What do you think for data science in particular?
Yeah, I mean, so this is an interesting topic, right? Because I think the whole power of language models stems from their ubiquity and versatility, and how they can sort of be, they're very generally applicable, right?
So like the thing about language models is that they're basically statistical models that have been trained on a very, very, very large corpus of data. And that's really to the computer, the computer doesn't really understand English, it doesn't really understand natural language, it has, it's basically making, it has like, when it's trained, it has like knowledge of the distribution of information and how information sort of interacts with other information.
So because of that, it has a very general applicability, right?
And I don't think that's utilities limited to data science.
Now, if we're talking about the field of data science specifically, I think language models
have extraordinary utility and explanatory natural language tasks, which I think everybody
is aware of now that ChatGPT has been out for almost a year.
But I think in the field of data science and other deep technical fields, they're especially applicable because of how complicated some of the work is.
Yeah.
And yeah, chat AI can also help analyze and debug code, which JupyterLab also allows you to do.
Yeah, I think I know it's statistics.
But when you look at it, it seems like it understands, right?
It seems like it understands my question.
And I think one of the really interesting parts is the fact that these LLMs have a context, right?
I would like you to write a program in Python.
Okay, great.
Tell it to me.
I want a program that does X, Y, Z, and then it writes it in Python, which sounds so simple.
But up until then, things like Siri and all the other voice assistants, they seemed so disjointed and so not understanding.
Like, I just asked you about the weather.
And when I ask you how hot it is, you know, like, how do you not understand that that applies to the weather, right?
There's just, and the fact that you converse with them over a series of interactions is pretty special.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, the context, the context, yeah, is basically implemented just by passing the history, the whole history appended to your prompt. So yeah, it's not like any super staple magic or whatever. But it's still, it's still very interesting, like how far you can take it. And yeah, definitely, like the context allows you to interact with the AI a lot more conversationally and humanly.
like you don't have to pretend you're talking to an ai you can actually just kind of treat it like
a human and it still answers questions very well so yeah yeah yeah it was even uh at google there
was that engineer who said they thought it had become sentient and then there was that whole
drama around that right this is such a crazy coincidence but my roommate is actually friends
with that that gentleman oh really I know absolutely crazy coincidence like it's just fun I just thought
it was really funny you bringing it up it was that um it was a Cajun gentleman a senior engineer at
Google yeah yeah yeah yeah very good a little while I don't remember all the details but yeah I mean
it's it's pretty wild and pretty powerful I think I've recently read I'm trying to quick look it up
but I didn't find it.
I think they just used LLMs to discover like a new protein folding.
And it's, it's that kind of stuff that makes me think like, okay,
how interesting that it's, you know,
it's that knowledge wasn't out there in the world necessarily.
Yeah. So I have a lot to say on that subject.
So personally,
I don't believe that language models are actually intelligent.
I think that people are conflating. Well,
they're certainly not conscious right but um as to whether they're intelligent i don't i don't
think they are i think that intelligence has a like intelligence as we know it as humans know it
as some different characteristics that language models don't really exhibit they're best thought
of as like really really really good statistical models like are you familiar with the mirror test
that i don't think maybe but i don't think so yeah so it's like this idea in animal psychology but
like if a cat sees a mirror it thinks it's another cat because right you see them all get like big
and like we're trying to like act big and tough to chase it off and it's just them yeah yeah language
models are kind of like that for but for humans right like if something mimics human-like quality
closely enough it's very tempting to think of it as human yeah we see faces on mars when it's really
just erosion stuff like that exactly i could talk about this like for a full hour but yeah we should
totally move on to another topic well when you're saying it's not that intelligent i'm wondering if
maybe you've miss misnamed this project maybe it should just be jupiter a like the i do i drop the
i i don't know i mean i we're just following convention right so i use it from ai of course
of course you got to talk to people yeah well emphasize the artificial huh yeah yeah so before
we get to jupiter ai like what is what came before how did people work with things like chat gpt and
other llms in jupiter um before stuff like jupiter ai came along yeah that's a great question so i
think um i think initially it was a combination so the initial motivation for this project came
through a combination of sort of a demo put together by Fernando Perez, who is another,
I believe, another co-founder of Project Jupyter. And he put together this demo called Jupiti,
which is, it's like spelled like Jupyter, except the last letter is an E. And it's a pun of like
chat dpt right jupy so it was a combination of that input that that um that demo project set by
uh fernando and um some motivation from my manager brian who also was uh you know as a leader in the
aws uh ai organization you know he's uh always trying to think of uh fancy schmancy new ideas
right and this is a this is a pretty fun idea to work out and um so i put together i think this was
sometime in early january i put together the first demo it was private and um i showed it off to the
team and they were like wow this has a lot of potential let's see if we can grow it a bit more
and then as we worked on it for the next few months it became clear like oh wow this is actually
is actually really significant. Let's keep working on this. So yeah, like it's definitely been a
collaborative effort to bring a Jupyter AI to where it is today. Yeah. Sounds like it. Definitely
a lot of contributors over on the GitHub listing. So let's get into it. What is Jupyter AI?
I mean, people can guess, but it's also different in ways than maybe just plug it in a chat window.
Yeah, so Jupyter AI is actually, right now, it's two packages. But it's best thought of as just a set of packages that bring generative AI to Project Jupyter as a whole. So not just JupyterLab, but also Jupyter Notebook and IPython, right? And yeah.
Even the shell. I guess you invoke it by doing the magic there as well.
well it's the ipython shell which is not the same as like um a bash got it got it yeah yeah yeah of
course yeah right interesting yeah so i can dive into a little bit more detail on what these two
packages are so we have uh the base jupyter ai package which is spelled exactly as you might
imagine it it's jupyter hyphen ai that is a uh jupyter lab extension that brings a UI to jupyter
lab which is the um which is the screenshot that you're showing on your screen but um for viewers
without a screen um it basically is the package that gives adds that chat panel to the left hand
side and allows you to speak conversationally with an ai and then the second package is jupyter ai
magics which is spelled the same except at the end it's spelled hyphen magic and that is actually
the base library that implements um some of the ai providers we use and brings these uh things
called magic commands to the ipython shell and magic commands basically let you invoke uh the
our library code aka like calling link using it to like call language models for instance
right? And that allows you to do it inside an IPython context. So what's crazy is that if you
run IPython in your terminal shell, you can actually run Jupyter AI from your terminal,
which is pretty cool. Yeah. I didn't realize that. I mean, it makes sense of course, but I hadn't
really thought about it. Yeah. I thought more of this like kind of a GUI UI type of thing that was
alongside what you were doing. Yeah. Yeah. We try to make it flexible and there's reasons for the
the magic commands, which I can talk about that later though.
- Yeah, sure.
Now, one thing, I mean, kinda, you said this,
but I wanna emphasize it a little bit in that.
- Yeah.
- This will run anywhere IPython kernel runs,
which is JupyterLab Notebook,
but also Google Colab, VS Code, other places as well, right?
So pretty much it comes to you
wherever your Jupyter type of stuff is, right?
Yeah, and the same goes for the lab extension.
So the great thing about lab extensions is that they work anywhere
where the product is just sort of built on top of JupyterLab, right?
So Google Colab is essentially what Google has is a,
well, I obviously can't attest to what they're actually doing,
but most likely it's like a set of extensions or CSS themes
that are built on top of JupyterLab,
but like the underlying code is still JupyterLab.
still most of JupyterLab.
So you can actually just install extensions
and they work just fine,
which is another reason why JupyterLab
is just pretty awesome.
Yeah, it sure is.
Yeah, JupyterLab itself is basically
a pre-selected,
pre-configured set of extensions, right?
Yes, yes, that is true, yes.
Yeah.
So I've been, I don't know,
giving preference to
or showing just what I play with mostly,
which is ChatGPT, but there's actually a lot of language models that you can work with, right?
Oh, yes, yes. So one of the big things, and this is something I'll circle back to later,
is that Jupyter AI is meant to be model agnostic, meaning that we don't discriminate against the
choice of model or model provider. Because as an open source project, it's very imperative that we
maintain the trust of our users, right? Users have to be sure that this isn't just some product that
exist to force them and force or pigeonhole them into using a certain model provider like open ai
or Anthropic right like it's the product makes no opinions we simply try to support everything as
best as we can and we've written a lot of code to make sure that all of these uh models and
just play nicely together essentially like every model provider like let's say from Anthropic
or AI21 or Cohere.
Every one of these APIs kind of has its own quirks.
Every one of these Python SDKs has its own quirks.
And we work very hard to basically iron out the surface
and make everything have the same interface.
And yeah, I think we can talk about that later, though.
Sure, and it also makes it pretty easy to try them out, right?
If you switch from one to the other.
Like, I wonder how hugging face versus OpenAI would do to solve this problem, right?
Absolutely, right?
Like, that's kind of one, the idea is, is like, while, you know, certain model providers,
they might offer a UI if they're very well funded by their investors, right?
So like, for example, OpenAI, they have a UI, but that UI only allows you to compare
between different models from OpenAI, which, you know, like as an independent third party looking
to use an AI service, like that information is obviously a little biased, right? Like you want
to see like what other providers have to offer, like what does AI 21 have? What does Anthropic have?
And right now it's really, there really is no like cross model provider, like UI or like interface
in general but like yeah and that's where uh that's kind of one of the use cases that jupiter ai
was intended to fit um yeah yeah provides a standard way to interact with all these and
sort of compare them and it's also a UI for them if you're using jupiter lab yeah
what about so i i'm not familiar with all of these different models and companies do any of
those run locally like things like uh gpt for all where it's like a local a local model versus some
kind of cloud where's your key where's your billing details and all that yeah so we definitely um
we actually recently just merged a pr that adds a gpt for all support and that's included in
the release however um i think back when we uh first implemented this a few months ago i had a
few issues with platform compatibility so like it wouldn't um so like some of the binaries that we
downloaded from gp4all um didn't seem to work well on my m1 mac for instance so i i'd say um yes we
do have local model support but it's a bit experimental right now we're still like ironing
out the edges and testing like seeing how we can make the experience better like does it sometimes
only get bad output because we forget to install the shared library?
Those are the type of questions that our team is wrangling with right now.
I see.
Maybe I just jumped right into it,
but maybe tell people what GPT4All is just real quickly.
Yeah, I mean, GPT4All offers a few local models.
Actually, they offer several, I believe.
Yeah, I think they offer maybe like 10 to 15.
The number is getting quite large, yeah.
Yeah.
To the point where I don't know what the right choice is.
I'm like, which one do I download?
They say they're all good.
Of course they're going to say they're good.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I'll be frank.
I don't actually have that much experience with GPT for all.
We mainly use them as sort of a provider for like these free and open source language models.
But yeah, beyond that, it's, yeah.
Like I think they offer a UI as well for multiple platforms.
They do.
Yeah, basically, I've only played with them a little bit,
just started checking it out.
But it's basically a local.
You download the model, you run it locally,
you don't pay anything because it's just running on your machine, right?
As opposed to, say, OpenAI and others where you've at least got rate limiting
and a certain amount of queries before you have to pay
and maybe potentially access to better models like GPT-4 versus 3.5 and so on.
Well, I think like that's also taking like the characteristics of these like service providers for granted. Right. So like the like, yes, definitely.
While it does hurt the wallet to pay for like usage credits. Right. Like it's also pretty remarkable how like small the latency has gotten with some of these APIs.
like I've gotten like sub 500 millisecond latency
on some of these APIs
and that's really incredible
because when I was using Jupyter for all
the latency was a little bit high
right on running locally with limited compute resources
it's really remarkable
like how fast these APIs are
it is pretty insane
sometimes it drives me crazy
I'm just only again referring to ChatGPT
because I don't have the experience with the others
to the degree
but it drives me crazy
how it it artificially limits the response based on the speed of the response so it looks like it's
chatting with you i'm like no i have four pages of stuff because you just just get it out you know
it'll say it'll say something like uh if you can ask i gave you a five page uh program let's call
it x you know if you say what is x it'll just start printing it slowly line by line like you know you
just just are echoing it back just just get it out i just i want to ask you the next question
you know what i mean yeah like it's it's like in that case that's actually a feature request that
we've gotten because it doesn't actually slow down like it's not just like a pointless animation the
language uh yeah the servers are streaming the uh essentially token by token right as the language
model generates output so it's kind of more like a progress indicator than um than an
a superfluous animation yeah yeah of course but if you've got something large large blocks of text
you're working with it can be it can be a drag all right i wanted to kind of touch on um
some of the different features that i pulled out that i thought were cool
um i mean it obviously it goes without saying that jupiter ai is on GitHub i mean because it's
software and it's open source which i don't know if we said that but obviously free open source
on GitHub um bsd3 license but it's also noteworthy that it's officially under the
jupiter lab organization not under the david or david account yeah yep it's a uh it's officially
part of the jupiter lab sub project and yep as you've pointed out we're under the jupiter lab
GitHub work as well.
Yeah, that's awesome.
All right.
So let's talk about some of the different things you can do with it.
Some of them will be straightforward, like just like, how do I write a function, Jupyter
AI?
And others, I think, are going to be a little more interesting.
So let's start with asking something about your notebook.
Tell us what people can do here.
Ooh, yeah.
So asking about your notebook basically means like you can actually teach Jupyter AI about
certain files.
Right. So the way you do this is via a slash command in the chat UI.
So you type slash learn and then file path and you essentially teaches the Jupyter AI about that file.
Now that it works best with files are written in natural language.
Right. So like text files or markup or markdown rather.
Yeah. So like those like especially like developer documentation as well.
It works best with those files.
After Jupyter AI learns about these files,
you can then ask questions about the files it's learned by
prefixing your question with the slash ask command.
Which is, yeah.
That is so cool.
It's pretty cool. It is pretty cool, I know.
It's so cool because what I've done a lot of times,
if I want ChatGPT to help me, it's like, I'm like, all right, well, let me copy some code.
Right.
Then I'm going to have a conversation about it.
But a lot of the context of, well, it's actually referencing this other function and what does
that do?
Or just a broader understanding of what am I actually working on is missing, right?
Because I've only copied it.
You can't paste 20 files into ChatGPT and start talking about it.
But with this, you can, right?
You can say, learn about different things, right?
You can say, learn about your notebook,
but you can also probably tell it like,
learn about my documentation or learn about my data set.
And now let me talk to you about it, right?
Yeah.
So what's interesting is that right now,
while it works best for natural language documents,
we are working on improving the experience for code.
So from our testing,
The code is mostly like the capabilities of Jupyter AI after learning code is right now mostly limited to explaining what code does.
But it sort of like explains it from the doc stream.
So we're working on a way to format the code in a manner that is more interpretable to a language model.
It's more, yeah, and we're working on ways to improve the experience for code.
But yeah, definitely.
The long-term vision is to have Jupyter AI literally be able to learn from the whole directory of files or possibly even a URL, right?
Like a remote URL to like a documentation page.
Or, yeah, like we have some big ideas there.
We're still working on them.
I want to work with a package, new package XYZ.
Like I don't know what XYZ is.
You know what?
Here's where you can learn about it.
Go figure it out.
Yeah.
Right, like query the PyPI API, get the docs page from the metadata, and then go to that
URL, scrape it.
Yeah, lots of things we're exploring.
It's still kind of early days for this, right?
You've been at it about a year or so?
Yeah, it's been out for a while.
Recently, I've had to work on a few other things as well, like Jupyter AI.
Unfortunately, I cannot give my entire life to Jupyter AI.
so I've been working on a few other things these past few months but yes um the yeah there are a
lot of things that I envision for Jupyter AI I have a much bigger vision for what I want this
product okay exciting be capable of exciting so you'll what if this screenshot that you got here
in the section that I'll link to in the show notes it's cool because you can select a piece of
a portion, not even a whole cell, but a portion of code in a cell.
And then you can ask, what does this code do?
Right.
So we, yeah, we have an integration with the JupyterLab editor APIs.
So you can select a block of code and then include that in your prompt and it will be
appended to your prompt below.
Right.
So you could, or it's appended to Bob, sorry.
And you can basically ask,
so you can select a block of code.
So in this screenshot right here,
there's this block of code
that computes the least common multiple
of two integers, right?
And you can select that
and then click Include Selection
and then ask your AI,
what does this do?
Which is pretty awesome.
Yeah.
Another checkbox is Replace Selection.
I'm guessing that is like,
help me rewrite this code
to be more efficient
or if there's any bugs, fix it?
So the replace selection checkbox is totally independent.
So you can actually use both at the same time.
And one of the use cases for this is refactoring.
And I've actually applied this in practice a few times
where you can basically select a block of code
and then click both include and replace selection.
And then you can format your prompt to say,
refactor this block of code,
do not include any additional helper text.
And when you send that prompt over,
it will actually refactor the code for you in your notebook,
which is pretty great.
That's pretty awesome.
You could do things like refactor this to use guarding clauses
so it's less nested, less arrow code or whatever, right?
Yeah, or add a doc string, right?
summarize the purpose of this function
and then enclose that in the doc string
and add it to the function, right?
- Yeah.
- Right, or this code is pandas code,
but I'd like to use Polars,
please rewrite it for Polars.
- Yes.
- It's not a super compatible API.
It's not like Dask to Panda,
where it's basically the same.
- Yeah, and this kind of circles back
to that question you had asked earlier.
I think I went on a tangent there
and didn't fully answer,
but like what is like the utility of Jupyter AI
data practitioners, right?
So yeah, data scientists,
machine learning engineers like this.
The include selection features.
We've heard great feedback about
how helpful it is to like actually
explain a data set.
So sometimes like you're working
with a test set and it's not immediately
clear what the features of this test
set are or like what this even does,
because sometimes it's like high
dimensional data and they can
literally select it and then click
include selection and say until
GIPTO AI.
Explain to me what this does.
Just like, what is this data frame stuff?
Whoa, we got data frames in data frames.
What's going on here?
What even is the structure of this?
Yeah.
That's awesome.
And I think it's super valuable.
I think this is a little bit I was getting to before one of the features that I think is cool,
whereas if you just go with straight ChatGPT, you copy your code, you paste it into the chat.
Hopefully it doesn't say it's too much text, and then you can talk about it.
But then when you get an answer, you've got to grab it, move it back over.
And this fluid back and forth is really nice.
Yeah.
And that's actually one of the design principles that we worked out when first starting this project officially is the idea that Jupyter AI should be human-centered.
As in, you shouldn't be expected to be a developer to know how to use this tool.
Like this tool is for humans, not for any specific persona, just for humans in general.
that's awesome yeah so in this case you select the function that does the lowest common denominator
bit and you ask it what it does it says the code will print out the least common multiple of two
numbers passed to it super simple very concise okay great now we can go on to the next thing right
yeah that's awesome
and then
there's
this LCD function
that we're kind of talking about here
this example is recursive
which I think
recursion is
pretty insane
as just a concept
for people to get their iterative
this is the iterative version so this is after
yeah so if we
go back up
Right. It's, anyway, so, but like one of the things you ask it is things like an example is
rewrite this function to be iterative, not recursive. Right. Which is actually really,
really awesome. Right. You're like, this is breaking my brain. Let's, let's see if we can not
do that anymore. another thing I wanted to talk about, and you talked a fair amount about this
in your presentations that you did. I can't remember if it was the Jupyter con or the PI data
one that I saw, but one of those two, you talked about generating new notebooks and how it's,
it's actually quite a tricky process. You got to break it down into little steps. Cause if you ask
too much from the AI, it kind of doesn't give you a lot of great answers. Tell us about making new
notebooks. Like why would I even use, like I can go to JupyterLab and say file new,
you know, for me. Right. So what's this about? Yeah. So the generate capability is great because
it generates a file that is essentially a tutorial that can be used as a tutorial to teach you about
new subjects right so like you could for example submit a prompt like slash generate a notebook
about async io or a demonstration of how to use matplotlib right and after so this will take a bit
of time but eventually jupiter ai is done thinking and generates a file and it names the file and
generates a notebook and the notebook has a name it has a title it has like sections table of
contents and each of the cells within it like is tied to some like topic that is determined to be
helpful and to answer the user's uh question right awesome could i do something like i have
weather data in this format from the U.S. weather service and could you generate me a notebook to
plot this xyz and help me answer these questions or like could I ask it something like that
um not at the moment so like that would best be done that would uh be done best uh if since the
data's already like I'm assuming that the data is already available right and some kind of like
format, right? So like in a notebook, you could use a chat UI to like select that entire, select
that selection and then tell it, tell Jupyter AI to generate code to plot that data set. So right
now, generate only takes a natural language prompt as its only argument. So it's kind of like
stateless in that regard. Yeah. So in this case, you can say slash generate a demonstration on
of how to use matplotlib.
And then the response is great.
I'll start working on your notebook.
It'll take a few minutes,
but I'll reply when it's ready.
In the meantime, let's keep talking.
So what happens behind the scenes
that takes a few minutes here?
Oh, yeah.
So this is a bit interesting.
It does kind of dive deep
into like the technical details,
which I'm not sure if,
which do you want to just like...
Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, let's go tell us how it works.
Yeah.
Yeah, so slash generate, the first thing is that the prompt is first expanded into essentially a table of contents, right?
So basically, we tell the language model, generate us a table of contents conforming to this JSON schema.
And when you pass a JSON schema included in your prompt, the language model will have a much higher likelihood of returning exclusively a JSON object that matches that JSON schema that you had initially provided.
So in our case, we generate a table of contents and then we take that table of contents and then we say for each section, right?
And we do this in parallel, right?
Like generate us some code cells that are appropriate for teaching this section of the document, right?
So for example, for matplotlib, right?
Like maybe the first section is your first, like generating your first plot, plotting 3D functions.
And the next one is like plotting complex functions with phase or something like that.
Right.
And then with each of these sections, we then send another prompt template to the language model for each of these sections, asking it to generate code.
And then at the end, we join it all together and then we save it to disk and then emit that message and say we're done.
Okay.
So maybe the English literature equivalent would be,
instead of just saying,
write me a story about a person
who goes on an adventure and gets lost,
it's like, I want,
give me an outline, bullet points of interesting things
that would make up a story
of how somebody goes on an adventure and gets lost.
And then for each one of those,
you're like, now tell this part of the story,
now tell this part.
And somehow that makes it more focused and accurate.
right well the main limitation is that because we're a model agnostic um language models are
limited in how much output they can generate yeah yeah so like the issue we were running into when
we were trying to do the whole thing all at once like generate me the whole notebook is that some
language models just couldn't do it right and in an effort to you know sort of stay model agnostic
we deliberately implemented,
we deliberately broke this process down
into like smaller subtasks,
each with its own like prompt template
in order to accommodate these models
that may lack the same token size windows
that other models have.
Yeah, interesting.
I think just even for ones
that have large token spaces,
I think they still,
the more specific you can be,
the more likely you're going to get
a focused result instead of a wandering vague result you know teach me about math or teach me
how to factor you know how to integrate this difference or solve this series of differential
equations physics like you're going to get a really different answer to those two questions
yeah and yeah and that's also yeah that's also um circles back to like a topic i didn't i
did want to call out but I don't I don't think we hit on it is that the chat UI
actually does support rendering of both markdown and LaTeX which is a markup
language from math so you can ask it both complex engineering and mathematical
questions like asking it to explain you like yeah so like there might be a demo
here I'm not sure if it's on this page though but like so if I had a like a
Fourier, fast Fourier transform in LaTeX.
And I put it in there and say, what is this?
It'll say it's a fast Fourier transform or something like that.
Yes.
And it also works the other way around.
Right?
So you can also use it to say like, Hey, explain to me what the 2D Laplace equation is, or
explain to me, like, what does this do?
Right?
And it will actually generate and format the equation inside the chat UI, which is really
remarkable.
I love that feature.
It's actually really awesome.
And it's also really appropriate for a scientific oriented thing like Jupyter, right?
Yeah.
And the remarkable thing is that because ChatGPT and like other such language models, like
the ones from Anthropic and AI21, because like they are founded on the premise of where
like their functionality comes from having such a large corpus of data, they know a remarkable
amount of information.
So we've tried some example notebooks of quantum computing and explained those really well.
I tried one with the Black-Scholes options pricing model used in financial engineering.
It's really remarkable the utility that it offers just by being there in the side panel.
You essentially have a math wizard available to you in JupyterLab at all times.
It's probably better than a lot of math professors in terms of not necessarily in the depth of one area, but if you ask somebody who does abstract algebra about real analysis, they're like, I don't really do that part.
Or if you ask somebody about real analysis, number three, you can hit on all the areas, at least a generalist professor sort of thing.
All right.
We talked about the slash learn command.
That's pretty excellent already.
and where that's going.
So I'm pretty excited about that.
Yeah, you also mentioned-
- The load command actually does have some,
yeah, it actually does have a lot of interesting
technical tidbits to it like-
- Okay, yeah, actually this is one of the really
challenging things with these chat bots and things.
For example, I've tried to ask ChatGPT
if I gave it one, just one of the transcripts from the show,
I wanna have a conversation about it.
that's too much i can't do it yeah yeah it's just it's just one one show and in doc like in your
documentation there might be a lot of files in there right more than just one transcript levels
worth so that alone i think is kind of interesting just how to ingest that much data into it yeah and
you know this is a very interesting subject and it actually is a bit complex so what it is yeah i
mean if we have the time i think there are some other features you want to discuss i'm not sure
Let's dive into this for just a minute because I think it is interesting.
How do you make, because this makes it yours, right?
It's one thing to ask vague, like, tell me about the Laplace equation
and how does it apply to heat transfer?
Like, okay, great.
I have a specific problem with a specific library and I want to solve it.
And you don't seem to understand about enough of it.
So it really limits the usefulness if it doesn't,
if it's not a little closer to what you're actually doing.
And I think this brings it closer.
So yeah, tell us about it.
Yeah.
So like, I mean, when you think about it, right,
language models aren't just governed by like their intelligence.
However you measure that, right?
They're also governed by how much context they can take.
Yeah.
So one of the reasons ChatGPT was so remarkable is that it had a great manage,
had a great way of managing context through conversation history.
And that, that like seemingly small, like leap and like seemingly small feature,
Like is what made ChatGPT so like remarkably disruptive to this industry, right?
Is because of that additional context.
And we think about like extending that idea.
Like how do we give an AI more context, make it like even more human-like and personal?
Well, the idea is similar.
We add more context and that's what learning does, right?
And so the way learning works is that we're actually using another set of models called
embedding models.
And embedding models are very, very underrated in the AI modeling space, right?
These are really remarkable things.
And they have this one, I'll only cover the most important characteristic of embedding models,
which is embedding models take syntax and map it to a high-dimensional vector space called a semantic space.
And inside of the semantic space, nearby vectors indicate semantic similarity.
And I know that's like a lot of words, so I'm going to break that idea down, right?
So like canine and dog, let's take these two words as an example, right?
These two words are completely different.
They don't even share a single character and similarity together, right?
They don't have a single letter in common with one another.
And yet we know as humans that these two dogs,
these two words mean the same thing.
They refer to a dog, right?
So like they have different syntax,
but the same semantics, right?
So their vectors would be, you know.
Would be mapped close.
Would be very close by whatever metric you're using, yeah.
Yeah, so if you extend this idea and like you imagine,
okay, what if you split a document?
What if you split a file into like one to two sentence chunks?
And then for each of these like sentence, let's just say sentences, for example, right?
Let's say we split a document to sentences and then we take each of those sentences and then map, use an embedding model to compute their embedding and then store them inside of a vector store.
Like basically like a local database that has, that just stores all of these vectors in like a file or something, right?
Now, imagine what happens if we then take a prompt, like a question that we might have, and code that as an embedding.
And then we say to the vector store, okay, for this prompt embedding, find me all of the other embeddings are close to this.
Well, what you've just done in this process is called a semantic search.
So it's kind of like syntax search, except instead of searching based off of keywords or tokens or other syntactic traits, you are searching based off the actual natural language meaning of the word.
So this is much more applicable when it comes to like natural language prompts and natural language, like corpuses of data, right?
Because this is like the actual information that's being stored.
We don't care about the characters.
We care about the information that they represent.
The essence of it, yeah.
And these vectors are computed by the larger language model?
The vectors, the embeddings are computed by an embedding model.
And they're actually a separate category of model that we have our own special APIs for.
So in our settings panel, you can change the language model.
And I think we already discussed that, right?
Yeah.
But what's interesting is that underneath that, you'll also see a section that says embedding model.
And you can change the embedding model to, like, we also offer that same principle of model agnosticism there.
Nice.
And, yeah.
Yeah, this is very interesting.
Very interesting.
So let's talk a really bit about the format.
You said, obviously, that you can do LaTeX, which you say in, you say math, right?
You tell us, give me math.
Yeah, give me that.
Which is, yeah, it's pretty interesting.
But you can do images, markdown, code, HTML, JSON, text.
There's a lot of different formats you can get the answer back in.
Mm-hmm.
Yep.
Yeah, so like when you use the AI magics,
we can pass them through like a renderer first
before we show the output to the user.
Yeah, and with the AI magic, the %AI in the cell,
you can also specify,
that's where you put the format potentially,
but you can also specify the model
and the service, I guess, for the provider.
Yeah, so the IPython magics
are basically stateless in the sense
that you always have to specify the model explicitly.
So they don't operate off the premise
that you are using JupyterLab.
They don't run off the premise
that you have JupyterLab installed
or are using the lab extension that we offer.
right so because of that like the uh model is stated explicitly every time and that's by
design when you sat down like what is your jupiter ai provider set to and what's your favorite
that's my favorite uh i know i mean i as a developer i i like literally pick a random one
to give the most test coverage at all times.
And that's actually a great way of finding bugs.
So yeah, I don't have a favorite one.
My favorite one is the one that works
and hopefully that should be all of them.
Yeah, hopefully.
Okay.
Interesting.
Yeah.
I guess you can also tell it to,
forget what I was talking about.
We're going to start over.
That's pretty interesting
that you can do that along the way
because you maybe had a bunch of conversations
and we talked about the benefit of it,
like knowing the history of that conversation,
but you're like, all right, new idea.
Switching topics, chat.
Yeah.
Let's see.
I think the last one I wanted to talk about
specifically was interpolating prompts.
Kind of almost like f-strings
where you can put in the prompt text,
you can put a variable
and then other parts of your notebook or program
can set that value.
Tell us about this.
Yeah, so like basically you can define a variable
in your IPython kernel, right?
So like, and that's just dumb,
but just like how you define any other variable.
But what's interesting is that IPython's actually aware
of the variables that you are defining.
so we can programmatically access that when we uh when we implement the magics right so for so
basically if you define any uh variable at the top level scope like let's say a poet equals walt
whitman right so we have a named variable called poet and then you can you can send a prompt over
like write a poem in the style of curly braces poet and curly braces right and when that is run
the variable the value of that variable is interpolated and substitutes like around the
curly braces so the final prompt becomes write a poem in the style of walt whitman and when that
prompt is sent well you can imagine it generates a poem of walt whitman and yeah this uh yeah the
variable interpolation that we offer in ipython is very useful for like very quick like debugging
right so you can actually reference a cell in the notebook directly so i i'm not i think a lot of
people don't know this but like in a jupyter notebook there's like the in and out uh like
indicators to the left of each cell so it'll say like and in dot one out dot one right so those
are actual variables and you can use them you can use them here too so you can reference like debug
tell me why this code is failing curly braces in dot one.
Yeah, and that's, you just,
yeah, screen there, just scroll there.
Yeah.
Explain, explain what this does, the in bracket 11 or,
yeah, what, what went wrong in out bracket 11 or,
yeah, something like this.
Okay, it's, it's fine long as you don't go and rerun that cell.
Yeah.
But like you said, this is not for long.
Yeah, this is for quick.
Yeah, this is.
Yeah.
And you can make it more, you can make it independent of the order of execution just
by assigning whatever variable that is to whatever content that is to a named variable.
That way, no matter what order you run them then.
Exactly.
People might be thinking when you describe this interpolation thing, just bracket, poem,
bracket, curly brace, curly brace.
You're like, we already have that in Python.
You just put an F in front of the string and so on.
But this is in the message that goes to the AI cell magic,
not straight Python, right?
So that's the relevance.
That's why this is interesting, right?
- Yes.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, this is going straight there.
- Okay.
One, I mean, I guess it really comes down
to the different models that you select.
So you opt into this a little bit or maybe you need to understand it that way.
But talk to us a bit about privacy.
If I select something and say, what does this do?
What happens?
So I think like, yeah, something important to emphasize here is that whenever you use
a language model that's hosted by a third party, right?
So like it's running on their servers, right?
Regardless of whether this model is free or not,
like the fact that
you're sending data to a third party over the Internet,
like that's where the privacy and security concerns happen.
Right.
And that happens like whenever you're sending data across the wire over the Internet.
But we have some special safeguards in place here specifically to assuage fears
of like concerns over privacy and security that a lot of open source users have.
Right.
And one of the important ideas here is that
jupyter ai is both transparent and traceable so when we send language to a uh when we send uh
a prompt to a language model that's always captured in the server logs by default right so that's
always being locked it's always being captured like every yeah so like it's always going to be
traceable there's no secret back channel like you tell them people this is happening okay yeah so if
like an operator needs to audit like oh dang like um let me check just to make sure nothing nothing
scary was sent over to open ai well the operator can review the server logs and make sure that
all usage is compliant with whatever privacy policy their company has right and jupiter ai is also
exclusively user driven meaning that we will never by default send data to a language model even if
you selected one, right? Like we will never send data to that language model until a explicit
action is done by the user. So in this case, like clicking the send button, clicking shift,
enter, and running to sell, right? Like nothing is sent to a language model or embedding model
until that happens. Cool. And yeah. Yeah. I think that's really all you can do. That's,
sounds great. Cause you don't control what happens once it hits OpenAI or drop pick or whatever,
right? Yeah. And that's why, that's why the transparency is so important. Right. And,
oh, I forgot to touch on traceability. So like with these, AI generated, cells, right.
So like the output cells in the metadata, we indicate that with like the model that was used
to generate an output cell, if it comes from the Jupyter AI magic. So that way it's also like
traceable, not just in the logs, but like in the actual files, metadata itself as well.
That's cool because it'd be really easy to say out of the cell magic.
And then you have notebooks store their last output.
Like if you upload them to GitHub, they'll, they'll keep their last output.
Unless you say clear all cell outputs.
Well, depending on which model you have selected it, you might not get the same
output, not even close to the same output.
So you might want to know like, well, how did you get that picture?
Oh, I had selected and not the other.
Right?
Like that is really nice.
Right. And I've actually used the server logs myself to debug prompt templates, for instance.
Because what we show in the logs is the full prompt. After applying our template, after applying the edits, that's what's actually shown.
Yeah. So that's also really helpful for developers who need to debug what's happening.
yeah of course or if you're a scientist and you're looking for reproducibility you know i doubt there's
much guaranteed reproducibility even across the versions of the same model but at least you are
in the same ballpark you know at least i know what model that came from you can set the temperature
to zero but it won't generate very fun output but that is a workaround if you truly need a
I suppose, yeah.
The temperature being the ability to tell it how creative do you want to be
or how focused do you want the answer to be, right?
It's like a hyper parameter that basically governs the randomness,
like how far away from the mean it's willing to deviate.
Like kind of vaguely describable as creativity, yeah.
Yeah, I suppose.
I guess if you're looking for privacy, the GPT for all might be a good option.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
For that, right? Because that's not going anywhere.
Yeah. However, some of them do have license restrictions.
And that's also why we have also taken it this slow when it comes to adding more GPT for all support.
It's because different models are licensed differently.
And that's another consideration we have to take in mind.
Yeah, of course.
You're playing in a crazy space with many different companies evolving licenses.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Let's close it out with one more thing here.
Maybe two more things.
One is there's a lot of interest in these agents.
And it sounds, for example, your Create a Notebook that does this sort of thing,
like Teach Me About Matplotlib, is a little bit agent-driven.
I'm thinking of like LangChain and stuff like that, or even GPT engineer.
Yeah.
What's the story?
Do you have any integrations with that?
Any of those types of things?
We're working on one where basically you won't need to use slash commands anymore.
So this is like, again, like we're just kind of playing around with this, seeing how well
it behaves.
But we are trying to use agents to, for example, remove the need to use slash commands.
So when you say, like generate a notebook, like it will just generate one, you don't
have to know the slash command for that, like it will just, and so like, yeah, however,
we don't have any, we don't use agents at the present moment now.
Yeah.
And the reason for that is that they have very, they're not very model agnostic, at
least the ones from our research, like they only work well for a specific model and a
specific prompt template.
Okay.
beyond that's hard nice all right last question running out of time here yeah what's your favorite
thing you've done with jupyter ai not like a feature but what have you made it do to help you
that you really like your ai about jupyter ai that's an easy one so we have the what did it
learn well learn about itself so like i was at a conference and i uh so this was at pi data and i
And I actually got enough questions to the point where I just downloaded, I had the documentation
already available in my home directory because of some of the previous...
Like Markdown?
Yeah, the Markdown source.
Okay.
Markdown source, right?
And then I just had slash learn, I just learned that doc and then I just had that laptop on
the side and told people, like, if you have any questions, try answering that.
Just ask it?
Yeah, in case you don't want to wait in line.
Yeah, it's pretty remarkable.
The learn feature by far is definitely my favorite,
and it's the one I want to spend the most time developing and pushing.
I think there's massive possibility there
because to deeply understand what you're working on in a multifaceted way,
what are the documentations, what is the code, what is the data,
what is the network topology and servers I can work with,
all of that kind of stuff.
Pick your specialty.
Yep.
And that's how we make AI more human.
Yeah.
Before,
right before it takes over.
So no problem there.
Oh yeah.
Just kidding.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's,
let's wrap it up.
I think we're out of time,
David.
So final question,
some notable PI PI package,
maybe something awesome you discovered to help you write Jupyter AI.
Anything you want to give a shout out to?
Ooh.
So we've used, we definitely use LangChain a lot and that it's a pretty, it has some pretty fantastic integrations and we're actually built on top of LangChain really.
But also Dask, Dask is really nice.
Dask has some great visualization capabilities for when you're doing parallel compute, like it has a great dashboard that's also available.
The dashboard that, yeah, that shows it running and distributing the work in JupyterLab is amazing.
And one of the contributors also reached out once he had heard that I was integrating Dask into Jupyter AI.
He actually reached out to help us and offer like direct one-on-one guidance with using Dask.
And yeah, it's just been a fantastic experience using Dask.
Yeah, I have no complaints.
It's just pretty awesome that somebody has finally made parallel and distributed compute better in Python.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, Dask is cool.
Dask is very cool.
All right. Well, final call to action.
People want to get started with Jupyter AI.
What do you tell them?
I have to install Jupyter AI or Konda.
Konda install works too.
It's on both.
Awesome. Well, really good work.
This is super interesting,
and I think a lot of people are going to find value in it.
So I could see some nice comments in the audience
that people are excited as well.
So thanks for being here.
Yeah.
See you later.
You bet.
Bye-bye.